+++
articleTypes = ["quote"]
date = "2015-04-03T17:45:21+08:00"
description = "A good paragraph on the purpose of fasting"
discipline = ["literary"]
title = "Fasting on Good Friday"
tags = ["fasting", "lent"]
+++

Today is Good Friday. I am curious about how the fasting and abstinence practices for Lent came to be so I searched for articles in the Internet for it.

I came across a profound paragraph about fasting that stuck to me the whole morning. Here is the thought

> The purpose of fasting is not to "give up" things, nor to do something "sacrificial." The purpose of fasting is to learn discipline, to gain control of those things that are indeed within our control but that we so often allow to control us. In our culture especially, food dominates the lives of many people. We collect cookbooks. We have an entire TV network devoted to food [the "Food Channel"]. We have eating disorders, diets galore, weight loss pills, liposuction treatments, stomach stapling -- all sorts of things that proceed out of the fact that we often allow food, which in an of itself cannot possible control us, to control us. We fast in order to gain control, to discipline ourselves, to gain control of those things that we have allowed to get out of control. Giving up candy -- unless one is controlled by candy -- is not fasting. It is giving up candy, or it is done with the idea that we fast in order to suffer. But we do not fast in order to suffer. We fast in order to get a grip on our lives and to regain control of those things that have gotten out of control. Further, as we sing during the first week of Great Lent, "while fasting from food, let us also fast from our passions." 
